in this video I'd like to tell you how
to write control statements for your
octave programs so things like for while
and if statements and also how to define
and use functions here's my octave
window let me first show you how to use
a for loop I'm going to start by setting
V to be a ten by one vector of Syrian
zeros now here's how I write a for loop
for I equals one to ten
that's a for I equals one colon ten and
let's see I'm going to set V of I equals
two to the power of I and finally and
the white space doesn't matter so I'm
putting the spaces just to make it look
nicely indented but you know the spacing
doesn't matter but if I do this then the
result is that we get set to you know to
about 1 to the power 2 and so on so this
is syntax well I equals 1 colon 10 that
makes I loop through the the values 1
through 10 and by the way you can also
do this by setting your indices equals 1
to 10 and so the indices this is an
array from 1 to 10 you can also write
for I equals indices and this is
actually the same as a for I equals 1
pretending do you know display I and and
this will do the same thing so that was
the for loop if you're familiar with
break and continue that's break and
continue statements you can also use
those inside loops in octave but first
let me show you how a while loop works
so here's a my vector V let's write a
while loop I equals 1 while I is less
than or equal to 5 let's set V I equals
one hundred and increment I by 1 and so
this is what I start off equal to 1 and
then I'm going to set VI equals one
hundred and increment by one
two eyes you know greater than five and
as a result of that whereas previously V
was this powers of two vector I've now
taken the first five elements of my
vector and overwritten them with this
value 100 so that's the syntax for a
wire loop let's do another example I
equals 1 yr true and here I want to show
you how to use a break statement the set
VI equals 999 and I equals I plus 1 if I
equals 6 break and and this is also our
first use of an if statement so I hope
the logic of this makes any sense for I
equals I equals 1 and you know infinite
loop while repeatedly said VI equals 1
in increment I by 1 and then once I gets
up to 6 do a break which breaks you out
of the while loop and so the effect of
this should be to take the first five
elements of this vector V and set them
to 999 and yes V we've taken B and
overwritten the first five elements with
999 so this is the syntax for if
statement and for a while statement and
notice via and the we have two ends here
this end here ends the F statement and
the second end here ends the while
statement now let me show you the more
general syntax for how the user if-else
statement so let's see v1 is equal to
999 let's say v1 equals to 2 for this
example so let me type if v1 equals 1
display the value is 1 here's how you
write in else statements or rather
here's an LC if v1 equals 2 this is
going to be the case that's true in our
example display the value is 2 else
display the value is not one or two okay
so that's a if-else if-else statement
that end and of course here we've just
said you want equal to so hopefully yep
displays that the value is two and
finally I don't think I talked about
this earlier but if you ever need to
exit octave can type the exit command if
you hit enter that will cause octave to
quit or the to quit command also works
finally let's talk about functions and
how to define them and how to use them
here's my desktop and i have predefined
a file or pre saved on my desktop a file
called square this number m this is how
you define functions in octave you
create a file called you know with your
function name and then ending in dot m
and when octave finds inspire it knows
that this is where it should look for
the definition of the function square
this number dot m let's open it this
file notice that dumb I'm using the
Microsoft program word pad to open up
this file but you I encourage you if
you're using Microsoft to Microsoft's
Windows to use WordPad rather than
notepad to open up these files if you
have a different text editor that's fine
too but notepad sometimes messes up the
spacing if you only have notepad that
should work too that could work too but
if you have WordPad as well I will you I
would rather use that or some other text
set so if you have a different text
editor for editing your functions so
here's how you define the function in
octave then just zoom in a little bit
and this fire has just three lines in it
the first line says function y equals
square this number X this tells octave
that I'm going to return the value Y and
I'm going to return one value and if
that values must be safe than the
variable Y and moreover it tells octave
that this function has one argument
which is the argument X and the way the
function body is defined is y equals x
squared so let's try to call this
function square this number five and
this actually isn't going to work an
octave says square those numbers on the
fine that's because octave doesn't
where to find a find this file so as
usual let's use PWD or not in the right
directory so let's CD users ang slash
desktop that's where my desktop is oops
a little typo there uses ang desktop and
if I now type square this number 5a
returns the answer 25 it's kind of an
advanced speaker this is only for those
of you that know what the terms search
path means but um so if you want to
modify the octave search path and you
could just think of this next part as a
advanced or optional material only for
those either familiar with the concept
of search paths in programming languages
but you can use the term add path safety
colon slash users slash ng slash desktop
to add that directory to the octave
search path so that even if I go to some
other directory I can store octave still
knows to look in the users and Ji
desktop directory for functions so that
even though i'm in a different directory
now it still knows where to find the
square this number function okay but if
you're not familiar with the concept of
search path don't worry about it just
make sure to use the CD command to go to
the directory of your function before
you run it and that should work just
fine
one concept that octave has that many
other program languages don't is that it
can also define let you define functions
that return multiple values or multiple
arguments so here's an example of that
I've defined a function called square
and cube this number X and what this
says is this dysfunction returns two
values y1 and y2 when I set them as
follows why would they sweat y2 is X
cubed and what this does is this really
returns you know two numbers though so
some of you depending on what
programming languages you've used if
you're familiar with if you know C C++
Java often we think of a function as
returning just one value but this all
the syntax in octave that's a return
multiple values
now back in the octave window if I type
you know a B equals square and cube this
number five then a is not equal to 25
and B is equal to the cube of five is
equal to 125 so this is some often
convenient if you need to define a
function that returns multiple values
finally I'm going to show you just one
more sophisticated example of a function
let's say I have a data set that looks
like this with data points at 1 1 2 2 3
3 and what I'd like to do is to define
an octave function to compute the cost
function J of theta for different values
of theta first let's put the data into
octave so it does not set my design
matrix to be 1 1 1 2 1 3 so this is a my
design matrix X with X 0 the first
column being in the set term and the
second term being my you know the X
values of my three training examples and
let me say Y to be 1 2 3 as follows
which were the y-axis values so let's
say theta is equal to 0 semicolon 1 here
on my desktop are predefined this cost
function J and if I bring up the
definition of that function it looks as
follows so function J equals cost
function J inputs X Y theta some
comments specifying the inputs and then
fire a few steps set m to be the number
training examples there's a number of
rows and X computer predictions
predictions equals x times theta and
this is a comment that's wrapped around
so this is for the preceding comment
line computer squared errors by taking
the difference between their predictions
and the y-values and taking element wise
squaring and then finally computing the
cost function J and octave knows that J
is the value I want to return because J
over here here in the function
definition feel free by the way to
oppose this video if you want to look at
this function definition for longer and
kind of make sure that you understand is
understand there's the different steps
but when I run it in octave I find J
equals cost function J X Y theta it
computes oops I mean typo there should
have been capital X it computes J equals
zero because if my data set was you know
one two three one two three then setting
right David zero equals zero theta one
equals one this gives me exactly the
45-degree line that fits my dataset
perfectly
whereas in contrast if I set theta
equals say zero zero then this
hypothesis is predicting zeros and
everything to the same theta zero equals
zero theta one equals zero and a compute
the cost function then there's a two
point three three three and that's
actually equal to 1 squared which is my
squared error on the first example plus
two squared plus three squared and then
divided by 2m which is two times number
training examples which is oops which is
indeed two point three three and so that
sanity checks that this function here is
you know computing the correct cost
function and using the couple examples
we tried out on on our simple training
example and so that sanity checks that
the cost function J as as defined here
that it is indeed you know seeming to
compute the correct cost function at
least on our simple training set that we
had here with X&Y being the simple
training example that we saw
so now you know how to write control
statements like for loops while loops
and if statements in octave as well as
how to define and use functions in the
next video I'm going to just very
quickly step you through the logistics
of working on and submitting problem
sets for this class and how to use our
submission system and finally after that
in the final opto tutorial video I want
to tell you about vectorization which is
an idea for how to make your octave
programs run much faster